Here are homework questions for you to recap the concepts
we went through in class.

1. Navigating the terminal
  a, What is a root directory?
  The root directory is the first or top-most directory in a hierarchy. It can be likened to the trunk of a tree, as the starting point where all branches originate from.
  

  b, What is the difference between root and home directory?
  The root directory is the topmost level of the system drive and it is denoted by a slash '/'. The home directory is a subdirectory of the root directory and it is denoted by '~' and has path "/users/username".
  

  c, What is the difference between absolute and relative path?
  An absolute path is defined as the specifying the location of a file or directory from the root directory(/) and Relative path is defined as the path related to the present working directly(pwd). It starts at your current directory and never starts with a /.
  

  d, What command do you use to see what directory are you currently in?
  pwd (print working directory
  

  e, How would you see the files and folders in a directory?
  ls
  

  f, How do you go back to your home directory?
  cd~
  

  g, How do you create a new folder, can you also specify in the command where you want to save it ?
  cd my documents
  To create a folder in your present directory you just need to use the command mkdir "name of the folder", but if you want to create a folder in other directory you just need to use mkdir path/path/name of the folder.

  h, How do you remove a folder/directory, is it the same as removing a file?
  No, to remove an empty folder we need to use the command-line rmdir "name of the folder".
  

  i, What is a file or folder is not empty ? What flag would you use to remove it anyway?
  rm -rf "name of the folder"
  

  j, How do you move a folder/file ? What arguments does the command take?
  mv "name of the file" "name of the folder"/"name of the file"
  

  k, How can you find out more about a command and see the available options, syntax etc.
    (How/Where do you see the manual/help for a command)
    man "command"
    

  l, With what command do you rename a folder/file in the command line?
  mv "name of the file/folder" "new name of the file/folder".
  

  m, How do you copy a folder ?
  cp -r "name of the folder" "name of the folder copy"

  n, What command do you use to open a folder/file ?
  cat or less

2. Creating a new project
  a, How do you create a new folder (what command) ?
  mkdir "name of the folder"
  

  b, What command do you use to create/initiate a local repository (from the command line)?
     /One can also create a new repository on Github and then just clone it to their machine./
     git init
     

  c, What command do you use to create a new file ?
  touch "name of the file"
  

  d, If you create a file and and add text to it, these changes are now on your working directory.
     How would you save these to the local repository (describe the steps with commands)
     fork
     git clone
     git add "name of the file"
     git status
     open file on VSC to edit it and add some text then save the changes
     git commit -m
     git push origin master
     

    - from working directory to the staging area
    git add "name of the folder/file"
    

    - from the staging area to local repository
    git push -u origin branch_name
    

  e, What does git status do ?
  It displays the state of the working directory and the staging area. It lets you see which changes have been staged, which haven't, and which files aren't being tracked by Git.
  

  f, How would you check your commit history?
  git log
  

  g, To share your project(folder), you will need to create a remote repository.
     This can be done either on Github or in the command line using "gh repo create" command.
     To connect your local repository to the remote one (if you were to create it on github)
     you need to add remote to it. Briefly describe, what would be the commands to do this ?

    - How do you check whether you already have some github/remote repository connected to your local one?
    git remote -v
    

    - What command do you use to add the remote
    git remote add origin "link of the remote repo"
    

  h, When local and remote repository are connected, one can push the changes/files so they are visible
     on github. What would be the structrure of the command ? Do you need to create a pull request?
     git push -u origin master. Then you need to do a pull request on github.


3. Working on an existing project
  a, To get this homework to your computer you needed to copy a remote repository into your machine.
    What were the commands you needed to use?
    git clone "remote repo link"
    

  b, Do you need to initiate a git repository after cloning a project?
  No, because it's already initiated.
  
  
  c, What is the difference between forking and cloning?
  A fork creates a completely independent copy of Git repository. In contrast to a fork, a Git clone creates a linked copy that will continue to synchronize with the target repository.
  

  d, Can you just push your changes to repository that you don't "own" on github?
  No, you can't. Because you're not the owner.
  
  
